README.md, before:

# n0te t4ker

## Overview

The n0te t4ker is a streamlined, web-based application that empowers users to effortlessly create, view, and manage notes. This tool is ideal for both personal and professional note management, offering a clean and intuitive user interface, underpinned by a solid Express.js backend.


## Features:

- **Create Notes**: Users can effortlessly add new notes, complete with titles and content.
- **View Notes**: All notes are conveniently displayed for easy access and review.
- **Delete Notes**: Outdated or unnecessary notes can be removed, maintaining a clutter-free note space.


## Technical Journey

The development journey began with establishing a stable Express.js server, forming what became the backbone of my application's backend. I then committed to writing maintainable, scalable code, and ensuring seamless frontend integration while attempting some OOP best-practices. Here are some of the key milestones achieved:

- **RESTful API Design**: Our endpoints handle CRUD operations with finesse, offering a blueprint for RESTful practices.
- **Persistent Storage**: Employing a JSON file, we simulated database interactions to retain notes between sessions.
- **Frontend Ingenuity**: Static files served through Express.js guarantee a responsive UI, while client-side JavaScript promises asynchronous backend communication.
- **Robust Error Handling**: Anticipating and resolving errors, we've crafted a stable platform for users.
- **UUIDs for Uniqueness**: Every note gets a unique identifier, safeguarding data integrity.

## Built With

- [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML): Structures web content.
- [CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS): Styles and lays out web pages.
- [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript): Manages client-side scripting for user interaction.
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/): Enables responsive design and style components.
- [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/): Serves as the web application framework.
- [UUID](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid): Generates unique identifiers for notes.
- [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/): Assists in API endpoint testing.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/): Hosts and runs the web application.
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/): Executes server-side code.

## API Endpoints

- `GET /api/notes`: Retrieve all notes.
- `POST /api/notes`: Create a new note.
- `DELETE /api/notes/:id`: Delete a note by ID.

## How to Engage with n0te t4ker?

To get started with the n0te t4ker app, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/note-taker.
   Install Dependencies:
   Navigate to your cloned repository and run:
   
   
2. **Install Dependencies & Other Technologies**
   npm install
   Initialize the Application
   More coming soon!
   
   
3. **NPM Start & Access the Application**
   Launch a web browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000 to begin managing your notes.
   

4. **User Story & Acceptance Criteria**

    I. User Story:
    As a small business owner, I want to write and save
    notes so I can organize my thoughts and keep track of
    tasks I need to complete.

II. Acceptance Criteria:
GIVEN a note-taking application
WHEN I open the Note Taker
THEN I am presented with a landing page with a link to a notes page
WHEN I click on the link to the notes page
THEN I am presented with a page with existing notes listed in the left-hand column, plus empty fields to enter a new note title and the note’s text in the right-hand column
WHEN I enter a new note title and the note’s text
THEN a "Save Note" button and a "Clear Form" button appear in the navigation at the top of the page
WHEN I click on the Save button
THEN the new note I have entered is saved and appears in the left-hand column with the other existing notes and the buttons in the navigation disappear
WHEN I click on an existing note in the list in the left-hand column
THEN that note appears in the right-hand column and a "New Note" button appears in the navigation
WHEN I click on the "New Note" button in the navigation at the top of the page
THEN I am presented with empty fields to enter a new note title and the note’s text in the right-hand column and the button disappears

      III. Mock-Up!
Experience the user-friendly interface of n0te t4ker by checking out the mock-up:

       IV. **n0te t4ker: File Directory**

├── node_modules
├── public
│ ├── *index.html*
│ ├── *notes.html*
│ ├── styles.css
│ └── **client.js**
├── Routes
│ ├── **apiRoutes.js**
│ └── **htmlRoutes.js**
├── .gitignore
├── db.json
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── README.md
└── **server.js**
        -Javascript files- bolded
        -HTML files- italicised
 _______________________________________________________________

V. License
Distributed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for more information.

VI. Contact
~William Haynes - @your_twitter - wileland7@gmail.com

  VII. Project Link: 
     https://github.com/your-username/note-taker


VIII. Contributions-
    Coming soon - We're excited to see how the community will help n0te t4ker evolve.

IX. Technical Note (code):

 The source code for the application is housed in the server.js file, with front-end logic within the public/client.js. Middleware in the JS, and Routes are broken down into two folders dividing the tasks between HTML & API routes. The other real trick was getting the two ends (client and server)to shake hands and work together (even though, getting the notes to work was like whack-a-mole). As mentioned prior, Insomnia was used to failsafe that aspect of the challenge, and I only wish I'd used it sooner.

    Furthermore, the app's code ongoingly uses node,
    and the entire thing is deployed on Heroku. On a 
    *side-note* (ha-ha), this project is open-source and encourages community engagement. One love.


**X. BONUS**

n0te t4ker can delete!

Remember to replace placeholders like `@your_twitter` and the GitHub URL with your ac

Commit message:

Updated logic on event listeners; added clearForm

README.md, after:

# n0te t4ker

## Overview

The n0te t4ker is a streamlined, web-based application that empowers users to effortlessly create, view, and manage notes. This tool is ideal for both personal and professional note management, offering a clean and intuitive user interface, underpinned by a solid Express.js backend.


## Features:

- **Create Notes**: Users can effortlessly add new notes, complete with titles and content.
- **View Notes**: All notes are conveniently displayed for easy access and review.
- **Delete Notes**: Outdated or unnecessary notes can be removed, maintaining a clutter-free note space.
- **Persistent Storage**: Notes are saved in a database for long-term retention.


## Technical Journey

The development journey began with establishing a stable Express.js server, forming what became the backbone of my application's backend. I then committed to writing maintainable, scalable code, and ensuring seamless frontend integration while attempting some OOP best-practices. Here are some of the key milestones achieved:

- **RESTful API Design**: Our endpoints handle CRUD operations with finesse, offering a blueprint for RESTful practices.
- **Persistent Storage**: Employing a JSON file, we simulated database interactions to retain notes between sessions.
- **Frontend Ingenuity**: Static files served through Express.js guarantee a responsive UI, while client-side JavaScript promises asynchronous backend communication.
- **Robust Error Handling**: Anticipating and resolving errors, we've crafted a stable platform for users.
- **UUIDs for Uniqueness**: Every note gets a unique identifier, safeguarding data integrity.

## Built With

- [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML): Structures web content.
- [CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS): Styles and lays out web pages.
- [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript): Manages client-side scripting for user interaction.
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/): Enables responsive design and style components.
- [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/): Serves as the web application framework.
- [UUID](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid): Generates unique identifiers for notes.
- [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/): Assists in API endpoint testing.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/): Hosts and runs the web application.
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/): Executes server-side code.

## API Endpoints

- `GET /api/notes`: Retrieve all notes.
- `POST /api/notes`: Create a new note.
- `DELETE /api/notes/:id`: Delete a note by ID.

## How to Engage with n0te t4ker?

To get started with the n0te t4ker app, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/note-taker.
   Install Dependencies:
   Navigate to your cloned repository and run:
   
   
2. **Install Dependencies & Other Technologies**
   npm install
   Initialize the Application
   More coming soon!
   
   
3. **NPM Start & Access the Application**
   Launch a web browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000 to begin managing your notes.
   

4. **User Story & Acceptance Criteria**

    I. User Story:
    As a small business owner, I want to write and save
    notes so I can organize my thoughts and keep track of
    tasks I need to complete.

II. Acceptance Criteria:
GIVEN a note-taking application
WHEN I open the Note Taker
THEN I am presented with a landing page with a link to a notes page
WHEN I click on the link to the notes page
THEN I am presented with a page with existing notes listed in the left-hand column, plus empty fields to enter a new note title and the note’s text in the right-hand column
WHEN I enter a new note title and the note’s text
THEN a "Save Note" button and a "Clear Form" button appear in the navigation at the top of the page
WHEN I click on the Save button
THEN the new note I have entered is saved and appears in the left-hand column with the other existing notes and the buttons in the navigation disappear
WHEN I click on an existing note in the list in the left-hand column
THEN that note appears in the right-hand column and a "New Note" button appears in the navigation
WHEN I click on the "New Note" button in the navigation at the top of the page
THEN I am presented with empty fields to enter a new note title and the note’s text in the right-hand column and the button disappears

      III. Mock-Up!
Experience the user-friendly interface of n0te t4ker by checking out the mock-up:

       IV. **n0te t4ker: File Directory**
|___ images 
├── node_modules
├── public
│ ├── *index.html*
│ ├── *notes.html*
│ ├── styles.css
│ └── **client.js**
├── Routes
│ ├── **apiRoutes.js**
│ └── **htmlRoutes.js**
├── .gitignore
├── db.json
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── README.md
└── **server.js**

   **->Javascript files- bolded**
   *->HTML files- italicised*
 _______________________________________________________________

V. License
Distributed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for more information.

VI. Contact
~William Haynes - @your_twitter - wileland7@gmail.com

  VII. Project Link: 
     https://github.com/your-username/note-taker


VIII. Contributions-
    Coming soon - We're excited to see how the community will help n0te t4ker evolve.

IX. Technical Note (code):

 The source code for the application is housed in the server.js file, with front-end logic within the public/client.js. Middleware in the JS, and Routes are broken down into two folders dividing the tasks between HTML & API routes. The other real trick was getting the two ends (client and server)to shake hands and work together (even though, getting the notes to work was like whack-a-mole). As mentioned prior, Insomnia was used to failsafe that aspect of the challenge, and I only wish I'd used it sooner.

    Furthermore, the app's code ongoingly uses node for the front-end,
    and the entire thing is deployed on Heroku for back-end. On a 
    *side-note* (ha-ha), this project is open-source and encourages community engagement. One love. But, seriously? Getting the notes to work as expected per the acceptance criteria is like a can of worms! Outstanding exercise to practice some real troubleshooting errors with the DOM.
My last commit at the time of writing this involved:
Ensured that all the needed functions and event listeners are included.
Updated the event listeners to match the correct button IDs.
Added the clearForm function and its event listener.
Made sure the toggleButtons function is called in the appropriate places to correctly manage button visibility.
Kept the naming convention for the 'Save Note' button consistent (save-note-button) across the HTML and JavaScript.


**X. BONUS**

n0te t4ker can delete!

Remember to replace placeholders like `@your_twitter` and the GitHub URL with your ac
